# Master-thesis
The goal of the work is to investigate the influence of internal and external ribs on heat transfer in the evaporator. The scope in which the analysis was performed is to check how the exchanger power is affected by the change of individual elements of the geometry of the ribs, fins and the flow. The theoretical introduction describes the current state of knowledge about evaporators and internally finned tubes with an indication of the advantages and disadvantages of their use. One of the subsections is devoted entirely to the phenomenon of evaporator frosting, which is unfavorable from the point of view of heat transfer. In this subsection it is also describes how to minimize the occurrence of this phenomenon and its negative effects. The next chapter presents mathematical models of the heat transfer coefficients during the boiling of inorganic liquids in horizontal pipes and during the flow around a bundle of smooth and finned pipes by air. Based on the correlations and mathematical dependencies contained in this chapter, analyzes of the influence of individual factors on the heat transfer in the evaporator were performed. The next chapter contains the methodology of the analysis, it includes drawings of modeled exchangers and tables containing the physical parameters of the refrigerant, air and data on the geometry of the heat exchangers. The penultimate chapter contains the results of the analyzes with diagrams and descriptions, with the most important differences between the various geometries of the evaporators. The final chapter summarizes and draws conclusions on the effect of ribs on heat transfer in the evaporator.
